.. _tut_surveys:

Surveys and/or Polls
====================

Personalized texts can be very powerful to offer students content, comments,
or point them to resources selected based on the available data. This data
may come from sources such as student information systems or the learning
management system. However, in some cases we would like to obtain data either
directly from the students, or perhaps from the instructors through
observation. This functionality is offered in OnTask through the actions
called *Surveys*. These surveys collect information from the students (or the
instructors) through conventional web forms and the data is automatically
added to the workflow table and available to be explored through the
dashboard or statistics.

The first step to create a survey is to go to the *Actions* page, click in
the *New action* button, provide a name, a description (optional) and select
the action type *Survey*:

.. figure:: /scaptures/tutorial_survey_create.png
   :align: center

After the survey is created, the following screen is shown

.. figure:: /scaptures/tutorial_survey_editor.png
   :align: center

The editor is divided into five areas:

Filter learners
  An expression identical to the one used in the personalized text to select a
  subset of the learners for which the will be available.

Description
  Text describing the survey that is shown to the learners.

Key column to identify learners
  The key column in the table that will be used to identify the users when
  submitting their answers. This is typically the column that contains the
  user email.

Shuffle questions
  If selected, the questions in the survey will be shuffled when shown to the
  learners.

Columns to obtain and store the data
  The columns used to collect the data. In this action, a column is
  equivalent to a question. The description of the column is the text of the
  question. In this part of the editor you may either use one of the
  existing columns as question, create a new column (or
  question), or create a new derived one (the initial values are created by
  combining values from other columns).

This page will show you a warning message if any of the columns used in the
survey has an empty description. Let's suppose you want to ask the learners
two questions:

- What was the most challenging topic for you this week? 

- What was your dedication to the course this week?

To make the data suitable for further processing, we will create the two
questions/columns with a set of pre-defined answers. Use the *Add new column*
button to create two columns of type string and provide the allowed answer
values as a comma-separated list.

.. figure:: /scaptures/tutorial_survey_column_creation.png
   :align: center

After creating the column, insert it in the survey by selecting it with the
pull down menu. Repeat the procedure for the second question/column. You can
now add these columns to the action and the editor will show them in the
table at the bottom as shown in the following figure:

.. figure:: /scaptures/tutorial_survey_editor2.png
   :align: center

As in the case of the personalized text action, the *Preview* button allows
you to verify how will the learners see the content:

.. figure:: /scaptures/tutorial_survey_preview.png
   :align: center

Once created, you may select the URL from the action as it was described for
the personalized text and make it available for learners to enter their
answers. The data will be automatically added to the table.

The *Run* button in the survey actions allows an instructor to introduce the
survey answers for multiple learners. This functionality is used for
instructors to enter observations when interacting with learners. The table
search functionality allows to find the learners quickly and then click in
their survey execution and enter the data.

